College Details:
About College:
Name: Leelaben Dashrathbhai Ramdas Patel Institute of Technology and Research (also known as LDRP-ITR).
Website link:  https://www.ldrp.ac.in/
Type: Private engineering and research institute.
Established: 2005 
Trust/Management: Managed by Sarva Vidhyalaya Kelavani Mandal, a philanthropic trust in North Gujarat.
Location: KH, 5, Rd No. 5, Sector 15, Near KH-5, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 382016, India.
Contact:
* Phone: +91 79 2324 1492.
* Email: info@ldrp.ac.in
* Fax: 91-079-23241493
Affiliation: Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya (KSV), Gandhinagar.
Accreditation: Approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).
Campus: Urban campus; wheelchair accessible entrance and parking lot.
Operating Hours: Monday to Saturday, 8 am–8 pm; closed Sunday.
Undergraduate Programs: Offers several Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) programs
Postgraduate Programs: Offers programs including M.B.A. and M.C.A.
Admission Process: Admission through ACPC (Admission Committee for Professional Courses) procedure; there is no Management or NRI quota
Scholarships: Means and Meritorious Scholarship available for students
Library: Air-conditioned library
Transportation: Transportation facility available from all routes of Ahmedabad
Hostel Facility: Separate hostel facilities for boys and girls
ATM Facility: ATM facility available on campus
Fee Structure: Fees as per Fee Regulatory Committee norms
Fees per semester: 60,000/-
Fees per Year: 1,20,000/-
Research Grants: Research project grants provided to faculties and students
Placement Partners: Includes L&T Infotech, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Syntel, iGate Patni, MPhasis, eInfochip, IBM, Persistent, Cognizent, TCS, amdocs, ZEUS Learning, ESSAR, AXELOR, BOSCH, GIPL, DRC System, argusoft, TATVA Soft, ADANI, MAVEN VISTA, VERSE, RELIANCE, ANCHOR, TEGA Industries, KALYANI, and more


University Name: Kadi Sarva Vidyalaya
Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya is a University established vide Gujarat State Government Act 21 of 2007 in May 2007 and approved by UGC (ref F. 9-18/2008(cpp-1) March 19,2009).
The University has been established by Sarva Vidyalaya Kelavani Mandal to achieve the following objectives:


To provide need-based education and develop courses of contemporary relevance.
To be a University of excellence by providing research-based activities which would foster higher economic growth.
To provide education to all irrespective of caste, creed, religion etc.
The University has at present 19 Constituent Colleges/Departments at Gandhinagar and Kadi.


Phone : 09408801690
Email : info@ksv.ac.in
Website:https://ksv.ac.in/


Mandal Name: Sarva Vidyalaya Kelvani Mandal 
Sarva Vidyalaya Kelvani Mandal has been established in the year 1919, by philanthropist Pujya Chhaganbha. The basic principle preached by him “Kar Bhala Hoga Bhala” has been driving force for the growth of the education activities managed by the trust. Having started with just 6 students then, today the trust manages and runs various schools and colleges both at Kadi and Gandhinagar with more than 46000 students being educated. Of these 46000 students, around 5800 students both boys and girls stay in the hostels being managed by trust.


Branches:
Computer Engineering:
Established in 2005, the Computer Engineering department of LDRP Institute of Technology and Research offers Bachelor of Engineering (B. E.) and Master of Engineering (M. E.) programmes in Computer Engineering. The undergraduate B. E. programme is current intake of 180 students where as the M. E. is having the intake of 18. Admissions to both these programmes are carried out by the Government nominated admission committee (http://jacpcldce.ac.in). The department has adequate and well-qualified doctorate faculty members who also act as supervisors for Ph.D. programme being run by affiliating university viz. Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya (https://ksvuniversity.org.in/). Active research and post-graduate dissertation is being carried out in department under various facets viz. Cloud computing, data/web mining, networking, image processing, soft computing, IoT etc. Equipped with latest tools and hardware, the department offers state of the art infrastructures to its students for their all round development. Collaboration of various significant stakeholders such as alumni, industry, academia and parents, department resolute to offer all aspects of teaching learning process before the students. Various curricular, co-curricular and extra-curricular activities provide platform to the students to grow freely.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name:Dr. Ashishkumar Patel
Designation: Assistant Professor
Qualification: PHD, ME (CSE), BE (CE), Diploma (CE)
Experience: Teaching: 19.4 Years
                      Industry: 0.0years
Area: Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning
Email: ashish_ce@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties:53
No. of labs:17


Information Of Technology(IT) Engineering:
Established Year : 2008


Mission: To be a renowned department for educating the students with essential technicality and skills of computer engineering to resolve the challenges and issues in real-world while emphasizing multi-disciplinary research and development leading to betterment of society.
Vision: To establish the department with teaching and research identity in the domain of computer engineering in responding to the challenges in the world of 21st century with a profound zeal for astuteness, ethnicity and principles.
.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name: DR. MEHUL P. BAROT
Designation: Professor & Head
Qualification: Ph.D, ME(CE), BE(CE)
Date of Joining: 10-07-2008
Experience:        
             Teaching:        23.10 Years
               Industry:        0.0 Years
Area:        Data Science,Cyber Security, Computer Vision, Computer Network
Email: mehul_ce@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties:18
No. of labs:17


Electronics and Communication Engineering:
The EC Engineering (Electronics and Communication) Department was established in year 2006. The Department started with under graduate programme in Electronics and Communication Engineering.


The first most prime important mission of the EC department is to produce the engineer to use their skill for entrepreneurship. The Department has well qualified faculties and technical assistants. The Department has reach library with technical journals. Our efforts will be to have the proper placement of the Graduate engineers through our LDRP-ITR. Contribute to overall techno-economical development of the State in particular and Nation in general and improve quality of life of communities.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name DR. SHRIDHAR E. MENDHE
Designation:  Professor
Qualification: Ph.D. (EC)
Date of Joining: 08/07/2006
Experience:        
      Teaching: 30.0 Years
      Industry:        0.0 Years
Area: Antenna and Wave Propagation
Email:        mendhe_ec@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties:13
No. of labs:8


Electrical Engineering:
About Department :


The Department of civil engineering has been functioning since 2011 and has grown into a full-fledged department with specializations in all the major areas of Civil Engineering. The department has produced several eminent engineers who have made significant contributions in the planning and execution of Civil Engineering projects in India as well as abroad. The department has highly qualified faculty members engaged in teaching with the aim of achieving excellence in various fields. The faculty members are specialized in different disciplines of Civil Engineering.
 


Civil Engineering deals with creating designs, constructing and maintaining physical structures including rails, roads, bridges, buildings, dams, etc. Civil Engineering is one of the highly critical engineering domains where a perfectly built structure can facilitate people with much comfort but a minor mistake made by an engineer can take away hundreds of lives in seconds. So, deep knowledge and perfect understanding of the concepts and requirements of civil engineering is highly desirable. This perfection in learning starts with the search of a good engineering college whose only aim is to produce highly skilled professionals with adequate knowledge and competency. LDRP-ITR is the Best Civil Engineering College in Gandhinagar and Ahmadabad Region end up this search by providing highly quality and reliable teaching and training curriculum and facilities to the students.
 


The department has well equipped laboratories, namely mechanics of solids, structural analysis & software labs, concrete technology lab, soil mechanics lab, Environmental Engineering lab, Earthquake Engineering lab, Highway Engineering lab and surveying lab. The state of art infrastructure including high speed internet facility keeps the students well in advanced for various fields


Faculties:
No. of faculties: 13
No. of labs: 8




Electrical Engineering:
Department Established year:  2005-06.


Total number of laboratories with Names:


Electrical Machine
High Voltage Engineering
Power system Protection
Power Electronics/ microcontroller/ microprocessor
Basic electrical engineering/department workshop
Power system simulation
Electrical Measurements and Measuring Instrument/industrial instruments
Analog and digital Electronics
Control system/ control theory


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name: DR.SANJAY.R.VYAS
Designation:  Professor
Qualification: Ph.D.(Electrical) MBA(HR)
Date of Joining: 01/08/2005
Experience:        
             Teaching: 15.0 Years
             Industry: 5.0 Years
Area: power system
Email: srvyas_ee@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties: 13
No. of labs: 9


 Mechanical Engineering:
The Department of Mechanical Engineering came in to being in the year 2005.


Admissions to U.G. and P.G. programmes are carried out by the Government nominated admission committee (http://jacpcldce.ac.in).


At present, Department offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses as follows:


B.E.[Mechanical Engineering]                           :           60


M.E.[Mechanical – Production Engineering] :           12


M.E.[Mechanical – Thermal Engineering]      :           12


Also, the Department has a Skill Development Centre in the area of CNC/VMC with modern facilities in CAD/CAM along with due approval from The Centre for Entrepreneurship Development (Government of Gujarat) since 2017.


The department has well equipped laboratory and workshop facilities with modern sophisticated equipment to carry out research in all areas related to Mechanical Engineering.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name: PROF. (DR.) DIVYANG H. PANDYA
Designation:  Professor & Head (Mechanical Engineering)
Qualification: PH.D- IIT ROORKEE
Date of Joining: 10/7/2006
Experience:        
          Teaching: 25.0 Years
          Industry: 1.8 Years
Area: Non- linear Dynamics, Vibration Analysis, Design and Dynamics, Digital Signal Processing and soft computing in Mechanical Engineering
Email: hod_me@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties:35
No. of labs:11


Science and humanities:
The department of Science and humanities  was established in the year 2011 and it has emerged as a department pursuing excellence. The department has a team of highly-qualified and well-experienced faculty members .The department has 13 faculty members. Faculty members are experts in emerging fields of Mathematics, Physics, Communication skills and have made significant contributions in their own fields. The department has well established laboratories for Physics and communication skills.The aim of the department is to broadly educate aspiring engineering students in the basics of Mathematics, Physics and English which serve as a platform for the growth of students in their further study of Technical subjects. We nurture our students to understand the fundamentals and the application of Mathematics and Physics; an ability to function effectively on multi disciplinary teams and a proficiency in oral and written communication.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name: DR. KUMKUM JAIN
Designation        : Assistant Professor, Head of Department
Qualification: M.Sc, M.Phill, Ph.D (Mathematics)
Date of Joining: 25/06/2008
Experience:
      Teaching: 15.0 Years
      Industry:        0.0 Years
Area: Special Function in Mathematics.
Email: hod_sh@ldrp.ac.in


No, of Facilities:11


MBA:
The institute has started an additional MBA program within the Engineering College from the academic year 2006-07.


This institute of professional education is housed in the sprawling 10-acre campus situated in picturesque locales of Gandhinagar. Right from their inception this institute sincerely committed itself to the cause of professional education and hence has spread no efforts to create an academic environment conducive to effective learning. In fact, the institute possesses all relevant and necessary infrastructural facilities right from its inception.


To this end, the institute has taken certain concrete and positive initiatives in molding the student’s attitudes towards their work, towards others and most importantly, towards themselves. The attitudes would distinguish them from the others, help them to be humble, to be open to change yet be prudent enough to judge when and which change is for better.


The main emphasis of the institute is to impart high-quality education and training in the field of management and information technology by:


Providing relevant knowledge with the help of modern technology.
Providing an opportunity to the youngsters to develop the spirit of professional entrepreneurship.
Inculcating professional attitude and ethical norms amongst young participants leading to excellence, competitiveness, and innovations in the management of complex business situations.


No, of Facilities:8


MCA:
MCA department of LDRP Institute of Technology and Research was established in the year 2007-08.
Academic Year 2020 onwards, MCA is of two years course as per AICTE.
Current intake is of 135 seats.
Eligibility:
A candidate shall have passed the qualifying examination of B.C.A./ B.Sc. (Computer Science)/ B.Sc. (IT)
/ B.E. (CSE)/ B.Tech.(CSE) / B.E. (IT) / B.Tech. (IT) or equivalent Degree or passed ANY GRADUATION degree (e.g.:
B.E. / B.Tech. / B.Sc / B.Com. / B.A./ B.Voc./ etc.,) preferably with Mathematics, Business Mathematics or statistics
at 10+2 level or at Graduation level. For students having no Mathematics background compulsory bridge course will
be framed by the respective University/ Institution and additional bridge courses related to computer subjects as per
the norms of the concerned University.
AND Obtained at least 50% marks (45% marks in case of candidates belonging to reserved category) in the qualifying Examination.
Recognized by AICTE.
Fees as per Fee Regulatory Committee.
Constituent college of Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya, Gandhinagar.
The department is dedicated to providing well disciplined environment with high-quality computer education facilities for students.
Staff : 02 Professors / 01 Asst. Professor / 08 Lectures / 01 Lab Assistant


No, of Facilities: 12


Cells
CWDC:
Cell Name: College Women Development Cell
Description: Promote women Empowerment & Women Rights 
Coordinator: Ms. Ankita Parikh (Head of Department, General Department) 




MMPSRPC:
Name: M.M. Patel Research Project Cell
Description: Cell Elevating student research by increasing high-quality publications in reputed journals and promoting patent filing for groundbreaking innovations.
Website: https://www.mmpsrpc.in/
Coordinator: Dr. Ajay Raval, Dharmesh Patel, Dr. Bhumika Arora


NCC:
Name: National Cadet Corps
Description: provides a suitable environment to motivate the youth to take up a career in the Armed Forces
Website: https://indiancc.mygov.in/


III Cell:
Name: Industry Institution Interaction Cell
Description: Cell established a close and continuing inter-action between the industry and Institute. As there are large numbers of Engineering and Management colleges coming up in Gujarat, the competition for employment is increasing every day and the job of placement is becoming a challenging one.
Coordinator: Ketan Chaudhari


Sports Cell:
Name: Sports Cell
Description: develops decision making skill and also Social, Organizational and Physical Skills. Which is beneficial in personal and professional life. Sports teach how to think and respond quickly. When you play sports, you develop qualities like honesty, teamwork, leadership and strategic planning.
Coordinator: Mr. Harsh Patel 


WEC Cell:
Name: Women Entrepreneurship Cell
Description: we will collectively form a recipe to accelerate the success of women entrepreneurs at KSV. The motive behind the Women Entrepreneurship cell is to motivate and nurture female students studying in various disciplines of KSV.
Coordinator: Dr. Shivani A Trivedi


DIR:
Name: Department of International Relations
Description: aims to facilitate international education and career opportunities for students through global pathway programs and collaborations.  
Website: https://www.dirsvkm.com/
Coordinator: Dr. Jinal Joshi


Anti-Ragging Cell:
Name: Anti-Ragging Cell
Description: Any interaction between freshers and seniors where the seniors are friendly, welcoming and non-aggressive is encouraged.
Website: https://www.antiragging.in/ 




NSS:
Name: National Service Scheme
Description: NSS LDRP volunteers participate in community service activities, such as health awareness campaigns and online safety webinars, and proudly wear the NSS badge to signify their commitment to serving the community.
Link: https://nss.gov.in/




IEEE Cell:
Name: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Cell
Description: IEEE's core purpose is to foster technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity. It is universally recognized for the contributions of technology and of technical professionals in improving global conditions.
Link: https://ieee-ldrpitr-sb.vercel.app/




Placements:
Placement Officer: Ketan Chaudhari
Institution: LDRP-ITR, Gandhinagar
Contact Email: placement@ldrp.ac.in
Campus drives: The college successfully arranges on-campus and pooled campus drives, and has hosted MNCs such as Amdocs, Tech Mahindra, Bharat Forge, L&T Infotech, and Infosys.
Total students (2020-2024): 587
Students eligible for placements (2020-2024): 329
Students appeared for placements (2020-2024): 187
Students placed (2020-2024): 166
Placement percentage (2020-2024): 88.77%
Average package: 4.2 LPA
Placement drive facilities: Provides auditoriums and computer labs for online exams.


PRINCIPAL:
Full Name: Dr. Gargi JAYANTBHAI Rajpara
Title/Position: Principal of L.D.R.P. Institute of Technology and Research, Gandhinagar. She is also listed as Director (I/c), KSV (Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya) and a Member Secretary of the Board of Governors for LDRP-ITR.


Professional Activities: She is an active researcher and has co-authored several publications. Her research work includes topics such as:
* Developing regional industrial trip generation models.
* Analysis of continuous water distribution systems.
* Analysis of road transport networks and infrastructure using satellite data.


College Administration: As principal, she is responsible for signing official college notices, such as admission announcements for various programs including B.E. and Diploma to Degree.


Chairman:
Shri Vallabhbhai M. Patel
Chairman, Sarva Vidyalaya Kelvani Mandal, Kadi & Gandhinagar
President, Kadi Sarva Vishvavidyalaya Gandhinagar.
The dynamics of today’s business and integration of global economies need a unique class of technology leaders. Thus strategic thinking, wealth creating and business acumen to compete, excel and win is amongst the salient competencies required at the middle and senior level. I am sure you are looking for technology leaders.


My every step now onwards for this institute will be dedicated towards the advancement of knowledge and educating our students in adopting more scientific methods, and technology for more and more practical aspect. Technology and other distinguished areas of science should best serve the community, society and humanity at large.


At LDRP, we have developed an environment that ensures rigor, encourages team work and expects excellence. Further, because of different disciplines with a good number of students and a regular stream of executive development programs, an atmosphere of varied cultural and corporate exposure prevails on the campus. Such an atmosphere develops in our students a thirst for innovation and a will to excel.


LDRP has emerged as a pioneer in providing excellence in their interest areas to its students. I would like to share this credit with all my staff members who have contributed immensely to our success. It has been their capability, dedication, diligence and loyalty towards this institution that we stand with our head held high today. LDRP provided friendly, informal vibrant community of learners. They have an opportunity to network; swap ideas think and evolve concepts. In today’s competitive environment, full of challenge, we provide learning systems that not only integrates mastery of fundamentals with across domain competencies, but also focuses personal development and growth of our students and teach them to “believe in themselves” first before they go all out building their career.


It is our benign endeavor to create global technical leaders with all around technical skills to become a treasured asset of the nation. We work closely with our corporate community sharing information and developing a clear understanding of their recruitment needs. We collaborate with industry through internships, projects, industrial visits, impaneling industry professionals as visiting faculty and corporate based curriculum design. This enables us to put forward industry ready recruits to local, national and international corporations.


I take this opportunity to invite your esteem organization to campus for recruitment of our executive graduate students. I am sure these “Change Masters” will be valuable assets of your organizations. The demand of the current time is to meet International standards. We provide the platform where students can grow dynamically before entering into the competitive world. The youth has that potential.
I wish you all the best for the bright future and enlightened world ahead with the light of Education.